In this video I'll demonstrate how to create and if has data store.
So let's start by looking at my first host here hosts 12 I'll call it.
And on the host I'm going to click on the datasource tab and you can see here I have a data store called
Big and my big data store is an FS version 3 data store and it's got about 650 megs of available space
right.
So I've got this data store that's that's already open that's already created and available on my first
ESX I host.
And if I click on settings I can see some of the settings for this particular data store and I can take
a look at specifically the device backing and this is what I want to show you.
So the NFC server itself is one two dot 168 dot 1 1997 and there was a folder created on that and FS
system that is being shared.
Right.
And that's the important thing that we always have to keep in mind with an FS right in this case we're
not creating a VMA fast data store.
There is no VMI fast file system when it comes to NFL.
Right the NFL has its own file system and we're simply accessing a shared folder on that file system.
So let's take a look at the second host host 13 and you can see that it does not have that data store
called big.
So I am now going to add a new data store to the second ESX I was going to call it an NFL data store
because that's what it's going to be.
And I want to make sure that I'm very careful here with this selection.
I want to choose the same and a fast version across all of my ESX I hosts if some hosts are accessing
NF as data store on has version 3 and other hosts are using N.F. as Version 4 not one we can potentially
corrupt the contents of that data store.
So we're going to be really careful here and make sure we're choosing the same version of FS consistently
and I'm going to call this data store demo.
It's going to be on the $192 168 199.
Seven is my first device and now I'll put in the folder that is being shared by my and FS system.
And I'll go ahead and hit next and finish.
And that's really all there is to it.
Right when you're saying I've been NFL data store it is basically Tallaght What's the address of the
FS device.
What's the folder that's being shared and do I want to access it in read only or read right.
So go ahead and hit finish here.
And we should see my data store appear almost instantaneously.
Right.
Because we're not dealing with VM FS that data store does not need to be formatted.
We're not using a lawn.
There is no raw disk space that needs to be formatted with the NFL.
We're accessing a file system that has already been created.
OK.
So in host 13 I've got my demo data store I host 12.
I've got my big data store.
So the hosts don't really match up just yet.
Right.
Some of them have one data store while other hosts have a number.
So let's go ahead and go to my big data store here under storage and look at hosts.
And here you can see this data store is available to host 192 dot 168 that won 99 out 12.
This data store is available to host 13 right.
And so that's what I have available on my hosts right.
I've configured these data stores to be available on certain hosts.
So what I can do here is I'm going to click on my big data store I'm actually going to right click it
and I'm going to choose to mount it to additional hosts.
And now I can make this data store that's already created available to other house.
I'll do the same thing with demo.
Right click it.
Mount data store two additional hosts and choose host 12.
And so now if I click on my demo data store it's available on both hosts if I click on my big data store
it's available on both hosts and since I have shared storage that's available across my two ESX I host.